{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Optima-Regular;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12340\viewh16520\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs24 \cf0 FLOW MAPS\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\f1\b \cf0 FLOWARTS.NET AND THE CURATING OF "GLOBAL" TAGS/CATEGORIES/LAYERS
\b0 \
Flowarts.net will develop the core global taxonomy. This will be the default view on the flowarts.net site. \
\
Types of events include:\
-Individuals\
-Teachers\
-Lessons\
-Training spaces\
-Shops\
-Spin-jams\
-Flow Specific Festivals (like a hooping festival)\
-Flow Friendly Festivals (like Burning Man or certain electronic music festivals) \
-Great places to play\
\
Types of tags include:\
-Type of Flow Art\
--Poi\
--Staffs\
--Hoop\
--Flow-wand\
-Individuals\
--Has permission to tag "international"\
--Willing to teach\
--Wants to make new flow-arts friends\
-Other tags?\
\
Data types\
			/*\
			 * Event title\
			 * event type\
			 * contact (user)\
			 * business\
			 * email\
			 * website\
			 * Location\
			 *  - address\
			 *  - city\
			 *  - province / state\
			 *  - country\
			 *  - postal code\
			 * Start date\
			 * End date\
			 * Reoccurring interval\
			 */\
\
Thus a user could look for other individuals who play with poi in their area. Or poi lessons within their province. Etc. \
\
Some layers may need a degree of permissions. I.e. users may have to apply for permission to tag events as International (criteria to be developed later). If they abuse this privilege their permission will be revoked. In time there will be trusted users in each region. The map itself will show people who their local trusted user is. So if they want to tag an event international, they will be directed to communicate with the local liaison. \
\
Note: We see no need for a thumbs-up / thumbs-down approach. If the map is well designed people will rarely see events that are not relevant to them. Also, under what circumstance would somebody give a thumbs-down to an event? \
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\b \cf0 HOST SITES: FLOWMAP EXPRESSIONS
\b0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\f1 \cf0 A primary feature is the ability of each website owner to customize the default displays of the flowmap to meet the values and speciality of their website. There are three levels to this, which may appear as three boxes with toggles:\
\
BOX #1: The host-site default layers and views: This is the host website's selection of elements to display on the map. The host also chooses which are toggled on and off by default. I.e. Playpoi.com may wish to by default show an international map of all Playpoi and friends-of-playpoi international events. A site for a Boston-based poi teacher may just default to a view of Boston showing where their lessons happen. \
\
BOX #2: Global Views: These are the global elements set by Flowarts.net. This will in itself be the default view when one visits the Flowmap on Flowarts.net. \
\
BOX #3: Mandatory links, etc. \
This may include:\
-A link back to flowarts.net\
-A link to a listing of all the websites displaying the flow-map
\f0\b \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\
\
LOCKED FILTERS (TAGS)
\b0 \
It's important that users can create locked filters (tags with permissions). For instance, as owner of playpoi I may want to create "Playpoi affiliated teachers" which would display all teachers officially related to Playpoi. These tags could only be applied to individuals by myself or anybody I gave permission to. 
\f1 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardeftab720\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
Thus I can create the "friends of playpoi" tag and give permission to my friends to tag events as such. I trust Jon to make good choices. I can set whether others can in turn pass permission onwards. \
\
With this approach, the vitality of the flow-map will be based on a growing and dynamic series of relationships and goodwill between artist communities and website owners. The global views will always allow users to find all poi teachers, all events, etc. But of course this won't guarantee quality. Thus networks of quality assurance will arise naturally. Want your event to be Playpoi-Approved? Great! Fly one of us over to the first event and if it's awesome we'll approve it from then on! \
\
\
\

\b AVOIDING ABUSE
\b0 \
Generally, our method to avoid clutter and abuse is to develop a very good system of taxonomy and tools for site owners. This will include an either/or system for designating the event. If an event can only be regional OR international, that would force users to make the appropriate choice. If I am teaching local poi lessons in Toronto, I want it to appear when people zoom in to Toronto. If I were to falsely tag my lessons as international, they would only appear in the international-events layer, and thus people looking for local poi resources would not find me. \
\
Note that non-international events, such as public spin-jams, are unlikely to be abused anyway, and will only appear when the viewer zooms into a specified location. \
\
The mostly likely way people will try to abuse the map is to tag their events as international when they are not, in the hopes of getting more attention for the event. \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\f1 \cf0 \
\

\b OTHER PROBLEMS TO SOLVE:\

\b0 \
For repeating events, such as weekly spin-jams, how can we keep them current? Can we set a maximum of six months of repeating? And then the poster gets a message saying they have to extend the event? \
\
-What are other ways people may abuse the system? \
\
\
\

\b SOME IDEAS ABOUT HOW PEOPLE WILL USE THE MAPS:
\b0 \
Say I'm trying to promote myself as a poi teacher. Great! I can put up my own website, embed the map, and make the default view display my events! But if I want those events to show on playpoi's default view, then of course I need to meet somebody from Playpoi and show them what a great teacher I am.\
\
There will be bad performers and bad teachers listing themselves. This is where the tags are important. It will hopefully be clear to users that when they toggle "all poi teachers" from the global box, it shows all poi teachers, regardless of their reputation. Thus users will often first look to "host site recommended teachers" or another filter/tag to help them find quality. \
\
\
\

\b OTHER THOUGHTS
\b0 \
As a site owner I can create as many tags and even custom categories as I wish, and order/stack them as I see fit. But of course if I make this complicated I'm guaranteeing that they will only be displaying on my own website!\
\
I may also want to display custom layers created by other users. For instance, I may want to display a layer showing the venues of a performance of a performance troupe I like. Thus I just add "all performances tagged suchandsuch" to the Playpoi default view. \
\
An important issue: When are layers toggled on/off by the viewer and which layers automatically toggle on/off depending on view zoom? Darren wrote: "
\f2\fs26 Depending on the zoom level, pins could be "clustered" to display a single pin with a number. Clicking on it would expand the cluster and redraw with all of the pins/points within displayed." 
\f1\fs24 \
\
It will need to be clear to users that global events will appear on other instances of the flowmap (once toggled or zoomed in, etc.), but custom events/tags will only show up when/if other sites choose. \
\
We will need a way to submit new layers/tags to flowarts.net for consideration to be upgraded to global. \
}